README.md, before:

Vim configuration
=================

2013-10-04  
Using pathogen for plugin management.

~/.vimrc is also in this git repository. For
conveniece, I'll use dotfile directory, or some approximation to that
technique:

* move config (dot) files in a folder;
* create soft links in original destinations;
* git push dotfile folder for syncronization and backup to some repo.

So, `ln -s ~/.vim/vimrc ~/.vimrc`

I'll try to install everything through Tim Pope's [Pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen).

For regular install with Pathogen:

    cd ~/.vim
    git submodule add git://github.com/Raimondi/delimitMate.git bundle/delmitmate
    git submodule init && git submodule update
or `git submodule update --init`  

    vim

For installing Vimballs (from pathogen github page):

    :e plugin.vba
    :!mkdir ~/.vim/bundle/plugin
    :UseVimball ~/.vim/bundle/plugin

###Why Vim, tips and tricks

Good starter .vimrc file: http://net.tutsplus.com/articles/general/top-10-pitfalls-when-switching-to-vim/  
Get the color themes: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=625  
Cheatsheet: http://www.worldtimzone.com/res/vi.html  
https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails#readme  
Good migration explanation (why vim): http://stevelosh.com/blog/2010/09/coming-home-to-vim/  
http://biodegradablegeek.com/2007/12/using-vim-as-a-complete-ruby-on-rails-ide/  
Another plugin experience and customization: http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1590713  
Personal plugins and explanation (Pathogen, git):  
http://mirnazim.org/writings/vim-plugins-i-use/  
http://blog.smalleycreative.com/tutorials/using-git-and-github-to-manage-your-dotfiles/  
http://tammersaleh.com/posts/the-modern-vim-config-with-pathogen/  
http://vimcasts.org/episodes/synchronizing-plugins-with-git-submodules-and-pathogen/  
Some config tips: http://nvie.com/posts/how-i-boosted-my-vim/  
Nice post: http://statico.github.io/vim.html http://statico.github.io/vim2.html  

###Cheatsheets

http://media.smashingmagazine.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/VI-Help-Sheet-01-large2.jpg  
http://www.digilife.be/quickreferences/QRC/vi%20Quick%20Reference.pdf  
http://www2.cs.uidaho.edu/~rinker/ed03.pdf  
http://www.terminally-incoherent.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/vimcheatsheet.pdf  
http://www.digilife.be/quickreferences/QRC/VIM%20Quick%20Reference%20Card.pdf  
http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/vimcheat.html  
http://michael.peopleofhonoronly.com/vim/  
Mind map http://overapi.com/static/cs/vim-brain.png  
http://parker0phil.posterous.com/vim-cheat-sheet#!/  
http://www.viemu.com/a_vi_vim_graphical_cheat_sheet_tutorial.html  
http://www.fprintf.net/vimCheatSheet.html  
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1218390/what-is-your-most-productive-shortcut-with-vim  

###Plugins

####Installed

Command-t  
http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3025  
http://git.wincent.com/command-t.git/blob_plain/HEAD:/doc/command-t.txt

NERDTree  
https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree

DelimitMate  
git submodule add git://github.com/Raimondi/delimitMate.git bundle/delmitmate

TComment  
https://github.com/tomtom/tcomment_vim

Solarized color scheme  
http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/vim-colors-solarized

Colors pack  
http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=625  
*With some tweaking: color definitions should be in bundle/some_name/colors folder.*

Installing some fonts   

    sudo apt-get install ttf-dejavu ttf-liberation xfonts-terminus console-terminus ttf-droid ttf-inconsolata

Tagbar: Awesome source code tag browsing  

    sudo aptitude install exuberant-ctags  # Required by Tagbar
    cd ~/.vim
    git submodule add git://github.com/majutsushi/tagbar.git bundle/tagbar
    git submodule init && git submodule update

Fugitive  
    git submodule add git://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive.git bundle/fugitive

Markdown  
http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2882  
After extracting gz archive:  

    :e markdown.vba
    :!mkdir ~/.vim/bundle/markdown
    :UseVimball ~/.vim/bundle/markdown

For Markdown realtime preview: https://github.com/suan/vim-instant-markdown

Vim-unimpaired  
https://github.com/tpope/vim-unimpaired

####For consideration

https://github.com/tpope/vim-dispatch

Gundo :Visualize your undo tree. www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3304

https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim  
http://kien.github.io/ctrlp.vim/#installation

Rails.vim http://ruby.about.com/b/2008/10/14/take-a-look-at-railsvim.htm  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Using_vim_as_an_IDE_all_in_one 10 Dec 2012

Autocomplete: Omnicomplete

Ctags  
http://codingfreak.blogspot.com/2009/12/ctags-vim-with-steroids.html  
http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/177/vim-with-ctags/  
http://amix.dk/blog/post/19329  
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/563616/vim-and-ctags-tips-and-tricks  
http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2009/04/ctags-taglist-vi-vim-editor-as-sourece-code-browser/

Auto Ctags update:  
http://tbaggery.com/2011/08/08/effortless-ctags-with-git.html

###Vim shortcuts

`:123`  go a line number 123, as `123G`  

Moving in “Insert” mode:  
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1737163/vim-traversing-text-in-insert-mode/1737259#1737259

From ~/.vimrc  
`<leader>` is set to “,”  
`<space>` is set to toggling folds (za, zc, zo...)  

`<leader>nt`: NERDTreeToggle  

To move around windows  
C-h  
C-j  
C-k  
C-l  

In insert mode pressing alt+h alt+j alt+k alt+l all take you to normal mode and move in the expected direction. You can hold down alt when moving even while in normal mode since the additional ESC that is sent does no harm. 

The advantage of using this scheme is that you can use the alt/meta+key combination with any normal mode key, e.g.

Alt+o opens a new line below the one you are currently editing,  
Alt+A appends to the end of the current line,  
Alt+p pastes at the current insert location.  
Alt+k moves up  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Avoid_the_escape_key

`ctrl-ww`: this will move between open windows

You can change the tabs by `ctrl-pgup` and `ctrl-pgdown`  
C+PgUp map <S-Right> :tabn<CR>  
C+PgDwn map <S-Left>  :tabp<CR>  

From NERDTree  
Press ? for help
use C-ww to move around (1 C-ww for NT, or C-w h/j/k/l)  
t (or T) opens a file in a new tab (T keeps the focus on the current tab)  
m opens menu
r reloads NT  

Command-T  
`<leader>t` starts search  
`<leader>b` starts buffers  
C-j, C-k move up and down  
C-c cancels

Current word search with '\*' and '#'

delimitMate `:help delimitMate`  
automatically closes parentheses and etc  
shift + tab to move outside of the pair

TComment  
gc{motion}: Toggle comments (for small comments within one line the &filetype_inline style will be used, if defined)  
gcc: Toggle comment for the current line 
gcip: Toggle for (inner) paragraph
gC{motion}: Comment region 
gCc: Comment the current line 

Omnicomplete  
C-p: list of words; selection is C-p and C-n (might not work in Guake/Yakuake, new tab command)

From Vi & Vim book  
press J (shift+j) to join the two lines

Folding shortcuts, 2013-07-18  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Folding  
zc: fold, zo: unfold, za: toggle;  
also zC, zO, zA  
look also zr/zR and zm/zM

Jumplists  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Jumping_to_previously_visited_locations  
:jumps  
ctrl+O   <- -> ctrl+I (tab)

Tagbar  
`<leader>l` (L) shows tagbar, functions, tags

Buffers  
:ls, :buffers, :files -- show buffers  
C+6 to move to next buffer  
:bn, :bp, :bnext, :bprev, :b <name>  
:bd (close), :bw (write and close)  
Good points:  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Easier_buffer_switching   
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Buffers  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Vim_buffer_FAQ  

Vim-unimpaired  
`]<space>` add empty line  
`[<space>`  
`]b` change buffers  
`[b`  
`[e` move line  
`]e`

Change inside delimeters  
You can use a whole set of commands to change text inside brackets / parentheses / quotation marks. It's super useful to avoid having to find the start and finish of the group. Try `ci(, ci{, ci<, ci", ci'` depending on what kind of object you want to change. And the ca(, ca{, ... variants delete the brackets / quotation marks as well.    

Easy to remember: change inside a bracketed statement / change a bracketed statement.})>}) 

`cib/ciB`: Change the text inside the current set of parenthesis () or braces {}, respectively.


Another nice list of shortcuts: <http://www.stanford.edu/~jacobm/vim.html>


*q:*

That brings up an interactive history of : commands, you can edit them, and to
run one you hit "enter" on the line

Commit message:

modified:   .gitmodules 	modified:   README.md 	new file:   bash_profile 	new file:   bashrc 	new file:   bundle/ctrlp 	modified:   vimrc

README.md, after:

Vim configuration
=================

2013-10-04  
Using pathogen for plugin management.

~/.vimrc is also in this git repository. For
conveniece, I'll use dotfile directory, or some approximation to that
technique:

* move config (dot) files in a folder;
* create soft links in original destinations;
* git push dotfile folder for syncronization and backup to some repo.

So, `ln -s ~/.vim/vimrc ~/.vimrc`

I'll try to install everything through Tim Pope's [Pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen).

For regular install with Pathogen:

    cd ~/.vim
    git submodule add git://github.com/Raimondi/delimitMate.git bundle/delmitmate
    git submodule init && git submodule update
or `git submodule update --init`  

    vim

For installing Vimballs (from pathogen github page):

    :e plugin.vba
    :!mkdir ~/.vim/bundle/plugin
    :UseVimball ~/.vim/bundle/plugin

###Why Vim, tips and tricks

Good starter .vimrc file: http://net.tutsplus.com/articles/general/top-10-pitfalls-when-switching-to-vim/  
Get the color themes: http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=625  
Cheatsheet: http://www.worldtimzone.com/res/vi.html  
https://github.com/tpope/vim-rails#readme  
Good migration explanation (why vim): http://stevelosh.com/blog/2010/09/coming-home-to-vim/  
http://biodegradablegeek.com/2007/12/using-vim-as-a-complete-ruby-on-rails-ide/  
Another plugin experience and customization: http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1590713  
Personal plugins and explanation (Pathogen, git):  
http://mirnazim.org/writings/vim-plugins-i-use/  
http://blog.smalleycreative.com/tutorials/using-git-and-github-to-manage-your-dotfiles/  
http://tammersaleh.com/posts/the-modern-vim-config-with-pathogen/  
http://vimcasts.org/episodes/synchronizing-plugins-with-git-submodules-and-pathogen/  
Some config tips: http://nvie.com/posts/how-i-boosted-my-vim/  
Nice post: http://statico.github.io/vim.html http://statico.github.io/vim2.html  

###Cheatsheets

http://media.smashingmagazine.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/VI-Help-Sheet-01-large2.jpg  
http://www.digilife.be/quickreferences/QRC/vi%20Quick%20Reference.pdf  
http://www2.cs.uidaho.edu/~rinker/ed03.pdf  
http://www.terminally-incoherent.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/vimcheatsheet.pdf  
http://www.digilife.be/quickreferences/QRC/VIM%20Quick%20Reference%20Card.pdf  
http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/vimcheat.html  
http://michael.peopleofhonoronly.com/vim/  
Mind map http://overapi.com/static/cs/vim-brain.png  
http://parker0phil.posterous.com/vim-cheat-sheet#!/  
http://www.viemu.com/a_vi_vim_graphical_cheat_sheet_tutorial.html  
http://www.fprintf.net/vimCheatSheet.html  
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1218390/what-is-your-most-productive-shortcut-with-vim  

###Plugins

####Installed

Command-t  
http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3025  
http://git.wincent.com/command-t.git/blob_plain/HEAD:/doc/command-t.txt

NERDTree  
https://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree

DelimitMate  
git submodule add git://github.com/Raimondi/delimitMate.git bundle/delmitmate

TComment  
https://github.com/tomtom/tcomment_vim

Solarized color scheme  
http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized/vim-colors-solarized

Colors pack  
http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=625  
*With some tweaking: color definitions should be in bundle/some_name/colors folder.*

Installing some fonts   

    sudo apt-get install ttf-dejavu ttf-liberation xfonts-terminus console-terminus ttf-droid ttf-inconsolata

Tagbar: Awesome source code tag browsing  

    sudo aptitude install exuberant-ctags  # Required by Tagbar
    cd ~/.vim
    git submodule add git://github.com/majutsushi/tagbar.git bundle/tagbar
    git submodule init && git submodule update

Fugitive  
    git submodule add git://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive.git bundle/fugitive

Markdown  
http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2882  
After extracting gz archive:  

    :e markdown.vba
    :!mkdir ~/.vim/bundle/markdown
    :UseVimball ~/.vim/bundle/markdown

For Markdown realtime preview: https://github.com/suan/vim-instant-markdown

Vim-unimpaired  
https://github.com/tpope/vim-unimpaired

####For consideration

https://github.com/tpope/vim-dispatch

Gundo :Visualize your undo tree. www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=3304

https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim  
http://kien.github.io/ctrlp.vim/#installation

Rails.vim http://ruby.about.com/b/2008/10/14/take-a-look-at-railsvim.htm  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Using_vim_as_an_IDE_all_in_one 10 Dec 2012

Autocomplete: Omnicomplete

Ctags  
http://codingfreak.blogspot.com/2009/12/ctags-vim-with-steroids.html  
http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/177/vim-with-ctags/  
http://amix.dk/blog/post/19329  
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/563616/vim-and-ctags-tips-and-tricks  
http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2009/04/ctags-taglist-vi-vim-editor-as-sourece-code-browser/

Auto Ctags update:  
http://tbaggery.com/2011/08/08/effortless-ctags-with-git.html

###Vim shortcuts

`:123`  go a line number 123, as `123G`  

Moving in “Insert” mode:  
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1737163/vim-traversing-text-in-insert-mode/1737259#1737259

From ~/.vimrc  
`<leader>` is set to “,”  
`<space>` is set to toggling folds (za, zc, zo...)  

`<leader>nt`: NERDTreeToggle  

To move around windows  
C-h  
C-j  
C-k  
C-l  

In insert mode pressing alt+h alt+j alt+k alt+l all take you to normal mode and move in the expected direction. You can hold down alt when moving even while in normal mode since the additional ESC that is sent does no harm. 

The advantage of using this scheme is that you can use the alt/meta+key combination with any normal mode key, e.g.

Alt+o opens a new line below the one you are currently editing,  
Alt+A appends to the end of the current line,  
Alt+p pastes at the current insert location.  
Alt+k moves up  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Avoid_the_escape_key

`ctrl-ww`: this will move between open windows

You can change the tabs by `ctrl-pgup` and `ctrl-pgdown`  
C+PgUp map <S-Right> :tabn<CR>  
C+PgDwn map <S-Left>  :tabp<CR>  

From NERDTree  
Press ? for help
use C-ww to move around (1 C-ww for NT, or C-w h/j/k/l)  
t (or T) opens a file in a new tab (T keeps the focus on the current tab)  
m opens menu
r reloads NT  

Command-T  
`<leader>gr` sets current folder to the Git root  
`<leader>t` starts search  
`<leader>b` starts buffers  
C-j, C-k move up and down  
C-c cancels

CtrlP  
Analogous to Command-T, more convenient because will search from project root.  

 - Use `<c-p>` to search files
 - Use `<c-j>`, `<c-k>` or the arrow keys to navigate the result list.
 - Use `<c-t>` or `<c-v>`, `<c-x>` to open the selected entry in a new tab or in a new split.
 - Use `<c-n>`, `<c-p>` to select the next/previous string in the prompt's history.
 - Use `<c-y>` to create a new file and its parent directories.
 - Use `<c-z>` to mark/unmark multiple files and `<c-o>` to open them.

Current word search with '\*' and '#'

delimitMate `:help delimitMate`  
automatically closes parentheses and etc  
shift + tab to move outside of the pair

TComment  
gc{motion}: Toggle comments (for small comments within one line the &filetype_inline style will be used, if defined)  
gcc: Toggle comment for the current line 
gcip: Toggle for (inner) paragraph
gC{motion}: Comment region 
gCc: Comment the current line 

Omnicomplete  
C-p: list of words; selection is C-p and C-n (might not work in Guake/Yakuake, new tab command)

From Vi & Vim book  
press J (shift+j) to join the two lines

Folding shortcuts, 2013-07-18  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Folding  
zc: fold, zo: unfold, za: toggle;  
also zC, zO, zA  
look also zr/zR and zm/zM

Jumplists  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Jumping_to_previously_visited_locations  
:jumps  
ctrl+O   <- -> ctrl+I (tab)

Tagbar  
`<leader>l` (L) shows tagbar, functions, tags

Buffers  
:ls, :buffers, :files -- show buffers  
C+6 to move to next buffer  
:bn, :bp, :bnext, :bprev, :b <name>  
:bd (close), :bw (write and close)  
Good points:  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Easier_buffer_switching   
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Buffers  
http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Vim_buffer_FAQ  

Vim-unimpaired  
`]<space>` add empty line  
`[<space>`  
`]b` change buffers  
`[b`  
`[e` move line  
`]e`

Change inside delimeters  
You can use a whole set of commands to change text inside brackets / parentheses / quotation marks. It's super useful to avoid having to find the start and finish of the group. Try `ci(, ci{, ci<, ci", ci'` depending on what kind of object you want to change. And the ca(, ca{, ... variants delete the brackets / quotation marks as well.    

Easy to remember: change inside a bracketed statement / change a bracketed statement.})>}) 

`cib/ciB`: Change the text inside the current set of parenthesis () or braces {}, respectively.


Another nice list of shortcuts: <http://www.stanford.edu/~jacobm/vim.html>


*q:*

That brings up an interactive history of : commands, you can edit them, and to
run one you hit "enter" on the line
